Add Migration Guide for Event Hubs (#9171)
Azure/azure-sdk-for-net: sdk/eventhub/Azure.Messaging.EventHubs/MIGRATIONGUIDE.md

  for publishing messages.
* [EventHubConsumerClient](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/azure.messaging.eventhubs.eventhubconsumerclient?view=azure-dotnet-preview) 
  for reading messages.

The producer and consumer clients operate in the context of a specific event hub and offer operations for all partitions. Unlike the v4, the clients are not bound to a specific partition, but the methods on them have overloads to handle specific partitions if needed.

The [EventHubConsumerClient](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/azure.messaging.eventhubs.eventhubconsumerclient?view=azure-dotnet-preview) supports reading events from a single partition and also offers an easy way to familiarize yourself with Event Hubs by reading from all partitions without the rigor and complexity that you would need in a production application. For reading events from all partitions in a production scenario, we strongly recommend using the [EventProcessorClient](https://azuresdkdocs.blob.core.windows.net/$web/dotnet/Azure.Messaging.EventHubs.Processor/5.0.0-preview.6/api/Azure.Messaging.EventHubs/Azure.Messaging.EventHubs.EventProcessorClient.html).

> We've introduced a new library [Azure.Messaging.EventHubs.Processor](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Azure.Messaging.EventHubs.Processor/) which replaces the older [Microsoft.Azure.EventHubs.Processor](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Azure.EventHubs.Processor/). Here we have the [EventProcessorClient](https://azuresdkdocs.blob.core.windows.net/$web/dotnet/Azure.Messaging.EventHubs.Processor/5.0.0-preview.6/api/Azure.Messaging.EventHubs/Azure.Messaging.EventHubs.EventProcessorClient.html) which is responsible for consuming events for the configured Event Hub and consumer group across all partitions. It also supports checkpointing and load balancing. Currently, only Azure Storage Blobs is supported for checkpointing.

Reviewer: (extreme) nit:  We may want to leave with the statement about the processor client as a natural segue from the previous paragraph and then branch into "The EventProcessorClient can be found in the new Azure.Messaging.EventHubs.Processor package that replaces. ..."

| `PartitionReceiver.ReceiveAsync()` or `PartitionReceiver.SetReceiveHandler()`                      | `EventHubConsumerClient.ReadEventsFromPartitionAsync()`                               | [Read events](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/master/sdk/eventhub/Azure.Messaging.EventHubs/samples/Sample09_ReadEventsFromAKnownPosition.cs) |
| `new EventProcessorHost()`                           | `new EventProcessorClient(blobContainerClient, ...)`               | [Basic Event Processing](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/master/sdk/eventhub/Azure.Messaging.EventHubs.Processor/samples/Sample03_BasicEventProcessing.cs) |

## Migration samples

### Migrating code from `PartitionSender` to `EventHubProducerClient` for publishing events to a partition

In v4, events could be published to a single partition using `PartitionSender`. You could also send a single event, a set of events, or a batch. In v5 only batches are supported to ensure that there are no unexpected exceptions generated during send; you can't put it in a batch if it was too large to send.

> In v5, this has been consolidated into a more efficient SendAsync(EventDataBatch) method. Batching merges information from multiple events into a single publish message, reducing the amount of network communication needed vs publishing events one at a time. Events are published to a specific partition when partition id is set in [`CreateBatchOptions`](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/azure.messaging.eventhubs.createbatchoptions?view=azure-dotnet-preview) before calling [`CreateBatchAsync(CreateBatchOptions)`](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/azure.messaging.eventhubs.eventhubproducerclient.createbatchasync?view=azure-dotnet-preview#Azure_Messaging_EventHubs_EventHubProducerClient_CreateBatchAsync_Azure_Messaging_EventHubs_CreateBatchOptions_System_Threading_CancellationToken_).

Reviewer: nit: I think it makes sense to combine these two paragraphs.

Author: As I said earlier I'm using the same pattern for all the samples and dividing the description of `v4` and `v5`

If you feel like we should combined these two in all the samples, we can do that later :)

# Migration Guide (EventHubs v4 to v5)

This document is intended for users that are familiar with V4 of the .NET SDK for Event Hubs library ([`Microsoft.Azure.EventHubs`](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Azure.EventHubs/) & [`Microsoft.Azure.EventHubs.Processor`](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Azure.EventHubs.Processor/)) and wish 
to migrate their application to V5 of the same library.

For users new to the .NET SDK for Event Hubs, please see the [readme file for the Azure.Messaging.EventHubs](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/master/sdk/eventhub/Azure.Messaging.EventHubs/README.md).

## General changes

In the interest of simplifying the API surface we've made two distinct
clients, rather than having a single `EventHubClient`:
* [EventHubProducerClient](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/azure.messaging.eventhubs.eventhubproducerclient?view=azure-dotnet-preview)
  for sending messages.
* [EventHubConsumerClient](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/azure.messaging.eventhubs.eventhubconsumerclient?view=azure-dotnet-preview) 

>   for receiving messages.

Author: Agreed!

We've also defined [EventHubConnection](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/azure.messaging.eventhubs.eventhubconnection?view=azure-dotnet-preview) which enables client communications with a specific Event Hub instance within an Event Hubs namespace. A single connection may be shared among multiple Event Hub producers and/or consumers, or may be used as a dedicated connection for a single producer or consumer client.

We've introduced a new library [Azure.Messaging.EventHubs.Processor](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Azure.Messaging.EventHubs.Processor/) where we have [EventProcessorClient](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/master/sdk/eventhub/Azure.Messaging.EventHubs.Processor/src/EventProcessorClient.cs) which is responsible for consuming events for the configured Event Hub and consumer group across all partitions. It also supports checkpointing and load balancing. Currently, only Azure Storage Blobs is supported for checkpointing.

> ### Client constructors

Author: I thinks this makes sense and we can follow up on this later.

I was just following the same structure as Java and JS.

### Read events 

| In v4                                          | Equivalent in v5                                                 | Sample |
|------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------|--------|
| `PartitionReceiver.ReceiveAsync()`                       | `EventHubConsumerClient.ReadEventsFromPartitionAsync()`                               | [Read events](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/master/sdk/eventhub/Azure.Messaging.EventHubs/samples/Sample09_ReadEventsFromAKnownPosition.cs) |
| `EventHubClient.SetReceiveHandler()`                       | `EventHubConsumerClient.ReadEventsFromPartitionAsync()`                               | [Read events](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/master/sdk/eventhub/Azure.Messaging.EventHubs/samples/Sample09_ReadEventsFromAKnownPosition.cs) |

### Minor renames

> | In v4                                          | Equivalent in v5            |

Reviewer: With all the things that we renamed, it seems odd to use just these two members.   Maybe we should think about dropping these and calling out things like "Runtime Metrics" are now "Last Enqueued Event Properties" and such.... or think about the specific things for the getting started.... or just drop this table?

Author: Dropped the rename section for now. We will collect all the data that we want to include here and add this section later.

|------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------|
| `EventPosition.FromStart()`                    | `EventPosition.Earliest`  |
| `EventPosition.FromEnd()`                      | `EventPosition.Latest`    |

## Migration samples

>  - [Migrating code from `PartitionSender` to `EventHubProducerClient` for publishing events to a partition](#migrating-code-from-partitionsender-to-eventhubproducerclient-for-publishing-events-to-a-partition)

Author: Updated!

 - [Migrating code from `EventHubClient` to `EventHubProducerClient` for publishing events using automatic routing](#migrating-code-from-eventhubclient-to-eventhubproducerclient-for-publishing-events-using-automatic-routing)
 - [Migrating code from `EventHubClient` to `EventHubProducerClient` for publishing events with partition key](#migrating-code-from-eventhubclient-to-eventhubproducerclient-for-publishing-events-with-partition-key)
 - [Migrating code from `PartitionReceiver` to `EventHubConsumerClient` for reading events in batches](#migrating-code-from-partitionreceiver-to-eventhubconsumerclient-for-reading-events-in-batches)
 - [Migrating code from `EventProcessorHost` to `EventProcessorClient` for receiving events](#migrating-code-from-eventprocessorhost-to-eventprocessorclient-for-reading-events)

### Migrating code from `PartitionSender` to `EventHubProducerClient` for publishing events to a partition

> In v4, events could be published to a single partition using `PartitionSender`.

Reviewer: I think this is a great place to detail that they could also send a single event, a set of events, or an explicit batch.    We are only supporting batch currently to ensure that there are no unexpected exceptions generated during send;  you can't put it in a batch if it was too large to send.

Author: Agreed!

await using (var producerClient = new EventHubProducerClient(connectionString, eventHubName))
{
    var batchOptions = new CreateBatchOptions() { PartitionId = "my-partition-id" };
    using EventDataBatch eventBatch = await producerClient.CreateBatchAsync(batchOptions);
    eventBatch.TryAdd(new EventData(Encoding.UTF8.GetBytes("First")));
    eventBatch.TryAdd(new EventData(Encoding.UTF8.GetBytes("Second")));
    
    await producerClient.SendAsync(eventBatch);
}
```

### Migrating code from `EventHubClient` to `EventHubProducerClient` for publishing events using automatic routing

In v4, events could be published to an Event Hub that allowed the service to automatically route events to an available partition.

In v5, automatic routing occurs when an [`EventDataBatch`](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/azure.messaging.eventhubs.eventdatabatch?view=azure-dotnet-preview) is created using [`CreateBatchAsync()`](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/azure.messaging.eventhubs.eventhubproducerclient.createbatchasync?view=azure-dotnet-preview#Azure_Messaging_EventHubs_EventHubProducerClient_CreateBatchAsync_System_Threading_CancellationToken_).

> So in v4:

Reviewer: nit:  I don't think the `so` offers us much here.  Can we remove it?

```csharp
var connectionString = "<< CONNECTION STRING FOR THE EVENT HUBS NAMESPACE >>";
var eventHubName = "<< NAME OF THE EVENT HUB >>";

> 

Reviewer: Do you think we should include samples around the single event and set of event cases too?

Author: I believe, `In v4 you could also send a single event, a set of events, or an explicit batch. We are only supporting batch currently to ensure that there are no unexpected exceptions generated during send; you can't put it in a batch if it was too large to send.` information is sufficient for the guide([Java ](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-java/blob/master/sdk/eventhubs/azure-messaging-eventhubs/migration-guide.md)and [JS ](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/blob/master/sdk/eventhub/event-hubs/migrationguide.md)also didn't add these samples in their guide).

If you feel like we should include these samples, we can add these later :)

Author: We have mentioned the following in our migration doc:

`In v4 you could also send a single event, a set of events, or an explicit batch. We are only supporting batch currently to ensure that there are no unexpected exceptions generated during send; you can't put it in a batch if it was too large to send.` 

And, I believe this information is sufficient for the guide([Java ](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-java/blob/master/sdk/eventhubs/azure-messaging-eventhubs/migration-guide.md)and [JS ](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/blob/master/sdk/eventhub/event-hubs/migrationguide.md)also didn't add these samples in their guide).

If you feel like we should include these samples, we can add these later :)

Reviewer: I don't feel strongly either way.    Most of the commentary here is stream-of-consciousness and potentially not fully considered  😄

    await eventHubClient.CloseAsync();
}
```

Becomes this in v5:
```csharp
var connectionString = "<< CONNECTION STRING FOR THE EVENT HUBS NAMESPACE >>";
var eventHubName = "<< NAME OF THE EVENT HUB >>";

string consumerGroup = EventHubConsumerClient.DefaultConsumerGroupName;

await using (var consumer = new EventHubConsumerClient(consumerGroup, connectionString, eventHubName))
{
    EventPosition startingPosition = EventPosition.Earliest;
    string partitionId = (await consumer.GetPartitionIdsAsync()).First();

    using var cancellationSource = new CancellationTokenSource();
    cancellationSource.CancelAfter(TimeSpan.FromSeconds(45));

    await foreach (PartitionEvent receivedEvent in consumer.ReadEventsFromPartitionAsync(partitionId, startingPosition, cancellationSource.Token))
    {
        // At this point, the loop will wait for events to be available in the partition.  When an event
        // is available, the loop will iterate with the event that was received.  Because we did not
        // specify a maximum wait time, the loop will wait forever unless cancellation is requested using
        // the cancellation token.
    }
}
```

> See [`ReadEvents.cs`](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/master/sdk/eventhub/Azure.Messaging.EventHubs/samples/Sample04_ReadEvents.cs) for a sample program demonstrating this.

Reviewer: This is the "read from all partitions" sample.   I don't think that's the one that you meant.   [This](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/master/sdk/eventhub/Azure.Messaging.EventHubs/samples/Sample09_ReadEventsFromAKnownPosition.cs) one is the only use of the single partition in our samples.

  for publishing messages.
* [EventHubConsumerClient](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/azure.messaging.eventhubs.eventhubconsumerclient?view=azure-dotnet-preview) 
  for reading messages.

The producer and consumer clients operate in the context of a specific event hub and offer operations for all partitions. Unlike the v4, the clients are not bound to a specific partition, but the methods on them have overloads to handle specific partitions if needed.

We've introduced a new library [Azure.Messaging.EventHubs.Processor](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Azure.Messaging.EventHubs.Processor/) which replaces the older [Microsoft.Azure.EventHubs.Processor](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Azure.EventHubs.Processor/). Here we have the [EventProcessorClient](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/master/sdk/eventhub/Azure.Messaging.EventHubs.Processor/src/EventProcessorClient.cs) which is responsible for consuming events for the configured Event Hub and consumer group across all partitions. It also supports checkpointing and load balancing. Currently, only Azure Storage Blobs is supported for checkpointing.

> The [EventHubConsumerClient](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/azure.messaging.eventhubs.eventhubconsumerclient?view=azure-dotnet-preview) is for exploring Event Hubs and reading from a single partition, where the [EventProcessorClient](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/master/sdk/eventhub/Azure.Messaging.EventHubs.Processor/src/EventProcessorClient.cs) is intended to be used for the majority of our real-world production scenarios.

Author: I placed this here because I was thinking first we should introduce`EventProcessorClient` (In line 34) then talk about it.

> The [EventHubConsumerClient](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/azure.messaging.eventhubs.eventhubconsumerclient?view=azure-dotnet-preview) is for exploring Event Hubs and reading from a single partition, where the [EventProcessorClient](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/master/sdk/eventhub/Azure.Messaging.EventHubs.Processor/src/EventProcessorClient.cs) is intended to be used for the majority of our real-world production scenarios.

Author: But after reading [this comment](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/pull/9171#discussion_r359379137), I moved this section above.

### Read events 

| In v4                                          | Equivalent in v5                                                 | Sample |
|------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------|--------|
| `PartitionReceiver.ReceiveAsync()` or `PartitionReceiver.SetReceiveHandler()`                      | `EventHubConsumerClient.ReadEventsFromPartitionAsync()`                               | [Read events](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/master/sdk/eventhub/Azure.Messaging.EventHubs/samples/Sample09_ReadEventsFromAKnownPosition.cs) |
| `new EventProcessorHost()`                           | `new EventProcessorClient(blobContainerClient, ...)`               | [Basic Event Processing](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/master/sdk/eventhub/Azure.Messaging.EventHubs.Processor/samples/Sample03_BasicEventProcessing.cs) |

## Migration samples

>  - [Migrating code from `PartitionSender` to `EventHubProducerClient` for publishing events to a partition](#migrating-code-from-partitionsender-to-eventhubproducerclient-for-publishing-events-to-a-partition)

Author: No strong opinion. I'll remove these from here.

The code below assumes all events fit into a single batch. For more complete example, see sample: [Publish events
to specific partition](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/master/sdk/eventhub/Azure.Messaging.EventHubs/samples/Sample06_PublishAnEventBatchToASpecificPartition.cs).

In v4:
```csharp
var connectionString = "<< CONNECTION STRING FOR THE EVENT HUBS NAMESPACE >>";
var eventHubName = "<< NAME OF THE EVENT HUB >>";

var connectionStringBuilder = new EventHubsConnectionStringBuilder(connectionString){ EntityPath = eventHubName }; 
var eventHubClient = EventHubClient.CreateFromConnectionString(connectionStringBuilder.ToString());
PartitionSender partitionSender  =  eventHubClient.CreatePartitionSender("my-partition-id");
try
{
    EventDataBatch eventBatch = partitionSender.CreateBatch();
    eventBatch.TryAdd(new EventData(Encoding.UTF8.GetBytes("First")));
    eventBatch.TryAdd(new EventData(Encoding.UTF8.GetBytes("Second")));

    await partitionSender.SendAsync(eventBatch);
}
catch()
{
    // Handle the exception here

> }

Reviewer: +1.    Since they're empty, I think removing them would help to make things more succinct and clear.

finally
{
    await eventHubClient.CloseAsync();

>     await partitionSender.CloseAsync();

Reviewer: By convention, we should.   In reality, the client will take responsibility and close the receiver, since it spawned it.   Probably a good change to make, though.

>     await partitionSender.CloseAsync();

Author: As Jesse said, client closes all the senders and receivers that are bound to that client but I accidentally closed the client first I'll update the code.

}
```

In v5:
```csharp
var connectionString = "<< CONNECTION STRING FOR THE EVENT HUBS NAMESPACE >>";
var eventHubName = "<< NAME OF THE EVENT HUB >>";

await using (var producerClient = new EventHubProducerClient(connectionString, eventHubName))
{
    var batchOptions = new CreateBatchOptions() { PartitionId = "my-partition-id" };
    using EventDataBatch eventBatch = await producerClient.CreateBatchAsync(batchOptions);
    eventBatch.TryAdd(new EventData(Encoding.UTF8.GetBytes("First")));
    eventBatch.TryAdd(new EventData(Encoding.UTF8.GetBytes("Second")));
    
    await producerClient.SendAsync(eventBatch);
}
```

### Migrating code from `EventHubClient` to `EventHubProducerClient` for publishing events using automatic routing

> In v4, events could be published to an Event Hub that allowed the service to automatically route events to an available partition.

Author: I was just following the same pattern in all the samples but if it looks awkward I'll make these the same paragraph.

> In v4, events could be published to an Event Hub that allowed the service to automatically route events to an available partition.

Author: I'm separating the descriptions and just following the same pattern in all the samples section.

var eventHubClient = EventHubClient.CreateFromConnectionString(connectionStringBuilder.ToString());
try
{
    EventDataBatch eventBatch = eventHubClient.CreateBatch();
    eventBatch.TryAdd(new EventData(Encoding.UTF8.GetBytes("First")));
    eventBatch.TryAdd(new EventData(Encoding.UTF8.GetBytes("Second")));

   await eventHubClient.SendAsync(eventBatch);
}
catch()
{
    // Handle the exception here
}
finally
{
    await eventHubClient.CloseAsync();
}
```

In v5:
```csharp
var connectionString = "<< CONNECTION STRING FOR THE EVENT HUBS NAMESPACE >>";
var eventHubName = "<< NAME OF THE EVENT HUB >>";

await using (var producerClient = new EventHubProducerClient(connectionString, eventHubName))
{
    using EventDataBatch eventBatch = await producerClient.CreateBatchAsync();
    eventBatch.TryAdd(new EventData(Encoding.UTF8.GetBytes("First")));
    eventBatch.TryAdd(new EventData(Encoding.UTF8.GetBytes("Second")));
    
    await producerClient.SendAsync(eventBatch);
}
```

### Migrating code from `EventHubClient` to `EventHubProducerClient` for publishing events with partition key

> In v4, events could be published with a partition key.

Author: I'm just following the same pattern in all the samples section.

var connectionStringBuilder = new EventHubsConnectionStringBuilder(connectionString){ EntityPath = eventHubName }; 
var eventHubClient = EventHubClient.CreateFromConnectionString(connectionStringBuilder.ToString());
try
{
    EventData eventData = new EventData(Encoding.UTF8.GetBytes("First"));

    await eventHubClient.SendAsync(eventBatch, "my-partition-key");
}
catch()
{
    // Handle the exception here
}
finally
{
    await eventHubClient.CloseAsync();
}
```

In v5:
```csharp
var connectionString = "<< CONNECTION STRING FOR THE EVENT HUBS NAMESPACE >>";
var eventHubName = "<< NAME OF THE EVENT HUB >>";

await using (var producerClient = new EventHubProducerClient(connectionString, eventHubName))
{
    var batchOptions = new CreateBatchOptions() { PartitionKey = "my-partition-key" };
    using EventDataBatch eventBatch = await producerClient.CreateBatchAsync(batchOptions);
    eventBatch.TryAdd(new EventData(Encoding.UTF8.GetBytes("First")));
    eventBatch.TryAdd(new EventData(Encoding.UTF8.GetBytes("Second")));
    
    await producerClient.SendAsync(eventBatch);
}
```

### Migrating code from `PartitionReceiver` to `EventHubConsumerClient` for reading events in batches

> In v4, events were read by creating a `PartitionReceiver` and invoking `ReceiveAsync(int)` multiple times to read

Author: I'm separating the descriptions and just following the same pattern in all the samples section.

events up to a certain number.

In v5, events can be streamed as they come in without having to use a batched read approach.

This code which reads from a partition in v4:

```csharp
var connectionString = "<< CONNECTION STRING FOR THE EVENT HUBS NAMESPACE >>";
var eventHubName = "<< NAME OF THE EVENT HUB >>";

var connectionStringBuilder = new EventHubsConnectionStringBuilder(connectionString){ EntityPath = eventHubName }; 
var eventHubClient = EventHubClient.CreateFromConnectionString(connectionStringBuilder.ToString());
PartitionReceiver partitionReceiver = client.CreateReceiver("my-consumer-group", "my-partition-id", EventPosition.FromStart());
try
{
    // Gets up to 100 events or until the read timeout elapses.
    IEnumerable<EventData> eventDatas = await partitionReceiver.ReceiveAsync(100);
    // Gets the next 50 events or until the read timeout elapses.

>     IEnumerable<EventData> eventDatas = await partitionReceiver.ReceiveAsync(50);

Author: You meant `Gets up to next 50 events..`?

>     IEnumerable<EventData> eventDatas = await partitionReceiver.ReceiveAsync(50);

Reviewer 2: Actually I didn't, but I don't think it would be a bad idea.

}
catch()
{
    // Handle the exception here
}
finally
{
    await partitionReceiver.CloseAsync();
    await eventHubClient.CloseAsync();
}
```

Becomes this in v5:
```csharp
var connectionString = "<< CONNECTION STRING FOR THE EVENT HUBS NAMESPACE >>";
var eventHubName = "<< NAME OF THE EVENT HUB >>";

string consumerGroup = EventHubConsumerClient.DefaultConsumerGroupName;

await using (var consumer = new EventHubConsumerClient(consumerGroup, connectionString, eventHubName))
{
    EventPosition startingPosition = EventPosition.Earliest;

>     string partitionId = (await consumer.GetPartitionIdsAsync()).First();

Author: We didn't mention about `GetPartitionIdsAsync()` method anywhere, that's why I used it here. And believe we don't have equivalent method in `v4` unless you want me to use `GetRuntimeInformationAsync()`.

>     string partitionId = (await consumer.GetPartitionIdsAsync()).First();

Author: We didn't mention about `GetPartitionIdsAsync()` method anywhere, that's why I used it here. And I believe we don't have an equivalent method in `v4` unless you want me to use `GetRuntimeInformationAsync()`.

    using var cancellationSource = new CancellationTokenSource();
    cancellationSource.CancelAfter(TimeSpan.FromSeconds(45));

    await foreach (PartitionEvent receivedEvent in consumer.ReadEventsFromPartitionAsync(partitionId, startingPosition, cancellationSource.Token))
    {
        // At this point, the loop will wait for events to be available in the partition.  When an event
        // is available, the loop will iterate with the event that was read.  Because we did not
        // specify a maximum wait time, the loop will wait forever unless cancellation is requested using
        // the cancellation token.
    }
}
```

See [`ReadEvents.cs`](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/master/sdk/eventhub/Azure.Messaging.EventHubs/samples/Sample09_ReadEventsFromAKnownPosition.cs) for a sample program demonstrating this.

### Migrating code from `EventProcessorHost` to `EventProcessorClient` for reading events

> In v4, `EventProcessorHost` allowed you to balance the load between multiple instances of your program and checkpoint

Reviewer: I'd make these the same paragraph too.   The second sentence looks much longer than it renders due to the links.

events when receiving. Developers would have to create and register a concrete implementation of `IEventProcessor` to
begin consuming events.

> In v5, `EventProcessorClient` allows you to do the same, the development model is made simpler by registering functions that would be invoked for each event. To use

Reviewer: We should probably make an explicit statement about "... made simpler by using events.  Rather than implementing an interface, you subscribe to the events that you are interested in by registering an event handler delegate, following the standard .NET pattern."

this, include [Azure.Messaging.EventHubs.Processor](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Azure.Messaging.EventHubs.Processor) as a dependency.

The following code in v4:

```csharp
private static void Main(String[] args) {

>     EventProcessorHost eventProcessorHost = new EventProcessorHost("my-eventhub-name", "my-consumer-group", "connection-string-for-an-event-hub", "storage-connection-string", "storage-container-name");

Reviewer 2: Using variables to store these values should be a better approach to keep the snippets equivalent, just like you did in other examples.
```csharp
var storageConnectionString = "<< CONNECTION STRING FOR THE STORAGE ACCOUNT >>";
var blobContainerName = "<< NAME OF THE BLOBS CONTAINER >>";
...
```

    public Task CloseAsync(PartitionContext context, CloseReason reason)
    {
         Console.WriteLine($"Processor Shutting Down. Partition '{context.PartitionId}', Reason: '{reason}'.");
         return Task.CompletedTask;
    }
    public Task OpenAsync(PartitionContext context)
    {
        Console.WriteLine($"SimpleEventProcessor initialized. Partition: '{context.PartitionId}'");
        return Task.CompletedTask;
    }
    public Task ProcessErrorAsync(PartitionContext context, Exception error)
    {
        Console.WriteLine($"Error on Partition: {context.PartitionId}, Error: {error.Message}");
        return Task.CompletedTask;
    }
    public Task ProcessEventsAsync(PartitionContext context, IEnumerable<EventData> messages)
    {
        foreach (var eventData in messages)
        {
            var data = Encoding.UTF8.GetString(eventData.Body.Array, eventData.Body.Offset, eventData.Body.Count);
            Console.WriteLine($"Message received. Partition: '{context.PartitionId}', Data: '{data}', Partition Key: '{eventData.SystemProperties.PartitionKey}'");
        }

        return context.CheckpointAsync();
    }
}
```

> And in v5, in order to use the `EventProcessorClient`, handlers for event processing and errors must be provided.  These handlers are considered self-contained and developers are responsible for ensuring that exceptions within the handler code are accounted for.

Reviewer 2: To keep the snippets equivalent, the handlers in the `v5` snippet should behave the same way the handlers in the `v4` one do, simply printing the same messages and returning a `Task.CompletedTask`. We need to illustrate how the `OpenAsync` and `CloseAsync` methods are converted into the `PartitionInitializingAsync` and `PartitionClosingAsync` handlers.

  - [Migrating code from `PartitionReceiver` to `EventHubConsumerAsyncClient` for reading events in batches](#migrating-code-from-partitionreceiver-to-eventhubconsumerclient-for-reading-events-in-batches)
  - [Migrating code from `EventProcessorHost` to `EventProcessorClient` for reading events](#migrating-code-from-eventprocessorhost-to-eventprocessorclient-for-reading-events)
- [Additional samples](#additional-samples)

## General changes

In the interest of simplifying the API surface we've made two distinct
clients, rather than having a single `EventHubClient`:
* [EventHubProducerClient](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/azure.messaging.eventhubs.eventhubproducerclient?view=azure-dotnet-preview)
  for publishing messages.
* [EventHubConsumerClient](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/azure.messaging.eventhubs.eventhubconsumerclient?view=azure-dotnet-preview) 
  for reading messages.

The producer and consumer clients operate in the context of a specific event hub and offer operations for all partitions. Unlike the v4, the clients are not bound to a specific partition, but the methods on them have overloads to handle specific partitions if needed.

> We've introduced a new library [Azure.Messaging.EventHubs.Processor](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Azure.Messaging.EventHubs.Processor/) which replaces the older [Microsoft.Azure.EventHubs.Processor](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Azure.EventHubs.Processor/). Here we have the [EventProcessorClient](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/master/sdk/eventhub/Azure.Messaging.EventHubs.Processor/src/EventProcessorClient.cs) which is responsible for consuming events for the configured Event Hub and consumer group across all partitions. It also supports checkpointing and load balancing. Currently, only Azure Storage Blobs is supported for checkpointing.

Reviewer 3: >EventProcessorClient [](start = 289, length = 20)

Maybe better to provide link to API doc, not the source.

Author: Docs are not properly updated yet and `EventProcessorClient` is missing from the [API doc](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/azure.messaging.eventhubs.processor?view=azure-dotnet-preview&viewFallbackFrom=azure-dotnet), that's why I added the source code link here.

@scbedd could you please take a look into that?

cc: @jsquire, @ramya-rao-a

Reviewer: I like the idea.   There's a problem currently with the preview docs for this release where they don't contain the processor package.   We could, however, link out to Dozie's github site in the meantime.

Author: Could you please provide the link to the Dozie's github site?

Reviewer: I'd be happy to but, uh, I can't remember what it was nor find it.     Do you mind asking him?

Author: I think Dozie is OOF. For now we keep as is and I'll update this link later.

The [EventHubConsumerClient](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/azure.messaging.eventhubs.eventhubconsumerclient?view=azure-dotnet-preview) is for exploring Event Hubs and reading from a single partition, where the [EventProcessorClient](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/master/sdk/eventhub/Azure.Messaging.EventHubs.Processor/src/EventProcessorClient.cs) is intended to be used for the majority of our real-world production scenarios.

### Client constructors

| In v4                                          | Equivalent in v5                                                 | Sample |
|------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------|--------|
| `EventHubClient.CreateFromConnectionString()`    | `new EventHubProducerClient()` or `new EventHubConsumerClient()` | [Publish Events](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/master/sdk/eventhub/Azure.Messaging.EventHubs/samples/Sample07_PublishEventsWithCustomMetadata.cs), [Read Events](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/master/sdk/eventhub/Azure.Messaging.EventHubs/samples/Sample04_ReadEvents.cs) |

> | `EventHubClient.CreateWithTokenProvider()` | `new EventHubProducerClient(..., tokenCredential)` or `new EventHubConsumerClient(..., tokenCredential)` | [Authenticate with client secret credential](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/master/sdk/eventhub/Azure.Messaging.EventHubs/samples/Sample11_AuthenticateWithClientSecretCredential.cs)

Reviewer 3: >CreateWithTokenProvider [](start = 18, length = 23)

This API is rarely used compared to CreateWithAzureActiveDirectory and CreateWithManagedIdentity. Can we reference these 2 instead?

| `new EventProcessorHost()`                           | `new EventProcessorClient(blobContainerClient, ...)`               | [Basic Event Processing](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/master/sdk/eventhub/Azure.Messaging.EventHubs.Processor/samples/Sample03_BasicEventProcessing.cs) |

### Publish events

v4 client took overloads with events and v5 require a sequence of `CreateBatch` and `Send` to publish the events.

| In v4                                          | Equivalent in v5                                                 | Sample |
|------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------|--------|

> | `PartitionSender.SendAsync()`                          | `EventHubProducerClient.SendAsync()`                               | [Publish events to a specific partition](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/master/sdk/eventhub/Azure.Messaging.EventHubs/samples/Sample06_PublishAnEventBatchToASpecificPartition.cs) |

Reviewer 3: >EventHubProducerClient.SendAsync() [](start = 60, length = 34)

SendEventOptions needed to send to partition.

Author: We don't pass `SendEventOptions` in [SendAsync()](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/master/sdk/eventhub/Azure.Messaging.EventHubs/src/EventHubProducerClient.cs#L460), we pass [EventDataBatch](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/master/sdk/eventhub/Azure.Messaging.EventHubs/src/EventDataBatch.cs) in `SendAsync()`

| `EventHubClient.SendAsync()`                          | `EventHubProducerClient.SendAsync()`                               | [Publish events](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/master/sdk/eventhub/Azure.Messaging.EventHubs/samples/Sample07_PublishEventsWithCustomMetadata.cs) |

### Read events 

| In v4                                          | Equivalent in v5                                                 | Sample |
|------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------|--------|

> | `PartitionReceiver.ReceiveAsync()` or `PartitionReceiver.SetReceiveHandler()`                      | `EventHubConsumerClient.ReadEventsFromPartitionAsync()`                               | [Read events](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/master/sdk/eventhub/Azure.Messaging.EventHubs/samples/Sample09_ReadEventsFromAKnownPosition.cs) |

Reviewer 3: >EventHubConsumerClient.ReadEventsFromPartitionAsync() [](start = 104, length = 53)

Should we also add ReadEvents API here although that is not partition specific?

Author: Also, we don't have any equivalent method like `ReadEventsAsync()` in track-1 that's why I didn't add this here.

Author: Also, we don't have any equivalent method like `ReadEventsAsync()` in track-1, that's why I didn't add this here.

    
    await producerClient.SendAsync(eventBatch);
}
```

### Migrating code from `EventHubClient` to `EventHubProducerClient` for publishing events using automatic routing

In v4, events could be published to an Event Hub that allowed the service to automatically route events to an available partition.

In v5, automatic routing occurs when an [`EventDataBatch`](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/azure.messaging.eventhubs.eventdatabatch?view=azure-dotnet-preview) is created using [`CreateBatchAsync()`](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/azure.messaging.eventhubs.eventhubproducerclient.createbatchasync?view=azure-dotnet-preview#Azure_Messaging_EventHubs_EventHubProducerClient_CreateBatchAsync_System_Threading_CancellationToken_).

In v4:
```csharp
var connectionString = "<< CONNECTION STRING FOR THE EVENT HUBS NAMESPACE >>";
var eventHubName = "<< NAME OF THE EVENT HUB >>";

var connectionStringBuilder = new EventHubsConnectionStringBuilder(connectionString){ EntityPath = eventHubName }; 
var eventHubClient = EventHubClient.CreateFromConnectionString(connectionStringBuilder.ToString());
try
{

>     EventDataBatch eventBatch = partitionSender.CreateBatch();

Reviewer 3: >partitionSender [](start = 32, length = 15)

This is eventHubClient. One more below as well.

    eventBatch.TryAdd(new EventData(Encoding.UTF8.GetBytes("First")));
    eventBatch.TryAdd(new EventData(Encoding.UTF8.GetBytes("Second")));

   await partitionSender.SendAsync(eventBatch);
}
catch()
{
    // Handle the exception here
}
finally
{
    await eventHubClient.CloseAsync();
}
```

In v5:
```csharp
var connectionString = "<< CONNECTION STRING FOR THE EVENT HUBS NAMESPACE >>";
var eventHubName = "<< NAME OF THE EVENT HUB >>";

await using (var producerClient = new EventHubProducerClient(connectionString, eventHubName))
{
    using EventDataBatch eventBatch = await producerClient.CreateBatchAsync();
    eventBatch.TryAdd(new EventData(Encoding.UTF8.GetBytes("First")));
    eventBatch.TryAdd(new EventData(Encoding.UTF8.GetBytes("Second")));
    
    await producerClient.SendAsync(eventBatch);
}
```

> ### Migrating code from `EventHubClient` to `EventHubProducerClient` for publishing events with partition key

Reviewer 3: Can we add migration from SendAsync(events, partitionKey) API as well?

Author: Sounds good!

I've already used batch send for `Migrating code from PartitionSender to EventHubProducerClient for publishing events to a partition` example, I'll update this one to use `SendAsync(events, partitionKey)`.

In v4:
```csharp
var connectionString = "<< CONNECTION STRING FOR THE EVENT HUBS NAMESPACE >>";
var eventHubName = "<< NAME OF THE EVENT HUB >>";

var connectionStringBuilder = new EventHubsConnectionStringBuilder(connectionString){ EntityPath = eventHubName }; 
var eventHubClient = EventHubClient.CreateFromConnectionString(connectionStringBuilder.ToString());
try
{
    var batchOptions = new BatchOptions(){ PartitionKey = "my-partition-key" };
    EventDataBatch eventBatch = partitionSender.CreateBatch(batchOptions);
    eventBatch.TryAdd(new EventData(Encoding.UTF8.GetBytes("First")));
    eventBatch.TryAdd(new EventData(Encoding.UTF8.GetBytes("Second")));

>     await partitionSender.SendAsync(eventBatch);

Reviewer 3: partitionSender > eventHubClient

    using EventDataBatch eventBatch = await producerClient.CreateBatchAsync(batchOptions);
    eventBatch.TryAdd(new EventData(Encoding.UTF8.GetBytes("First")));
    eventBatch.TryAdd(new EventData(Encoding.UTF8.GetBytes("Second")));
    
    await producerClient.SendAsync(eventBatch);
}
```

### Migrating code from `PartitionReceiver` to `EventHubConsumerClient` for reading events in batches

In v4, events were read by creating a `PartitionReceiver` and invoking `ReceiveAsync(int)` multiple times to read
events up to a certain number.

In v5, events can be streamed as they come in without having to use a batched read approach.

This code which reads from a partition in v4:

```csharp
var connectionString = "<< CONNECTION STRING FOR THE EVENT HUBS NAMESPACE >>";
var eventHubName = "<< NAME OF THE EVENT HUB >>";

var connectionStringBuilder = new EventHubsConnectionStringBuilder(connectionString){ EntityPath = eventHubName }; 
var eventHubClient = EventHubClient.CreateFromConnectionString(connectionStringBuilder.ToString());
PartitionReceiver partitionReceiver = client.CreateReceiver("my-consumer-group", "my-partition-id", EventPosition.FromStart());
try
{

>     // Gets 100 events or until the read timeout elapses.

Reviewer 3: >// Gets 100 events or until the read timeout elapses. [](start = 4, length = 53)

Gets up to 100 events...

    IEnumerable<EventData> eventDatas = await partitionReceiver.ReceiveAsync(100);
    // Gets the next 50 events or until the read timeout elapses.

>     IEnumerable<EventData> eventDatas = await partitionReceiver.ReceiveAsync(50);

Reviewer 3: Most developers consume messages in a while loop, not this way.

Author: Yes, you're right but the intention here is demonstrate developer how to migrate there code from v4  to v5. It is not representative of real-world examples; these are just the code-snippets.

Author: Yes, you're right but the intention here is to demonstrate developers how to migrate there code from v4 to v5. It is not representative of real-world examples; these are just the code-snippets.

# Migration Guide (EventHubs v4 to v5)

This document is intended for users that are familiar with v4 of the .NET SDK for Event Hubs library ([`Microsoft.Azure.EventHubs`](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Azure.EventHubs/) & [`Microsoft.Azure.EventHubs.Processor`](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Azure.EventHubs.Processor/)) and wish 

> to migrate their application to v5 of the same library.

Reviewer 4: Since in .Net, the new libraries are not new versions of the same library unlike Python & JS, we might want to reword this part.

How about the below?

```suggestion
to migrate their application to the newer Azure.Messaging.EventHubs and Azure.Messaging.EventHubs.Processor libraries.
```

  - [Migrating code from `EventHubClient` to `EventHubProducerAsyncClient` for publishing events with partition key](#migrating-code-from-eventhubclient-to-eventhubproducerclient-for-publishing-events-with-partition-key)
  - [Migrating code from `PartitionReceiver` to `EventHubConsumerAsyncClient` for reading events in batches](#migrating-code-from-partitionreceiver-to-eventhubconsumerclient-for-reading-events-in-batches)
  - [Migrating code from `EventProcessorHost` to `EventProcessorClient` for reading events](#migrating-code-from-eventprocessorhost-to-eventprocessorclient-for-reading-events)
- [Additional samples](#additional-samples)

## General changes

In the interest of simplifying the API surface we've made two distinct
clients, rather than having a single `EventHubClient`:
* [EventHubProducerClient](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/azure.messaging.eventhubs.eventhubproducerclient?view=azure-dotnet-preview)
  for publishing messages.
* [EventHubConsumerClient](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/azure.messaging.eventhubs.eventhubconsumerclient?view=azure-dotnet-preview) 
  for reading messages.

> The producer and consumer operate in the context of a specific event hub and offer operations for all partitions. Unlike the v4, they are not bound to a specific partition.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The producer and consumer clients operate in the context of a specific event hub and offer operations for all partitions. Unlike the v4, the clients are not bound to a specific partition, but the methods on them have overloads to handle specific partitions if needed.
```

> We've introduced a new library [Azure.Messaging.EventHubs.Processor](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Azure.Messaging.EventHubs.Processor/) where we have [EventProcessorClient](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/master/sdk/eventhub/Azure.Messaging.EventHubs.Processor/src/EventProcessorClient.cs) which is responsible for consuming events for the configured Event Hub and consumer group across all partitions. It also supports checkpointing and load balancing. Currently, only Azure Storage Blobs is supported for checkpointing.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We've introduced a new library [Azure.Messaging.EventHubs.Processor](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Azure.Messaging.EventHubs.Processor/) which replaces the older Microsoft.Azure.EventHubs.Processor. Here we have the [EventProcessorClient](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/master/sdk/eventhub/Azure.Messaging.EventHubs.Processor/src/EventProcessorClient.cs) which is responsible for consuming events for the configured Event Hub and consumer group across all partitions. It also supports checkpointing and load balancing. Currently, only Azure Storage Blobs is supported for checkpointing.
```

Author: We should add a link for `Microsoft.Azure.EventHubs.Processor` library here.

| `EventHubClient.SendAsync()`                          | `EventHubProducerClient.SendAsync()`                               | [Publish events](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/master/sdk/eventhub/Azure.Messaging.EventHubs/samples/Sample07_PublishEventsWithCustomMetadata.cs) |

### Read events 

| In v4                                          | Equivalent in v5                                                 | Sample |
|------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------|--------|
| `PartitionReceiver.ReceiveAsync()`                       | `EventHubConsumerClient.ReadEventsFromPartitionAsync()`                               | [Read events](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/master/sdk/eventhub/Azure.Messaging.EventHubs/samples/Sample09_ReadEventsFromAKnownPosition.cs) |

> | `EventHubClient.SetReceiveHandler()`                       | `EventHubConsumerClient.ReadEventsFromPartitionAsync()`                               | [Read events](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/master/sdk/eventhub/Azure.Messaging.EventHubs/samples/Sample09_ReadEventsFromAKnownPosition.cs) |

Reviewer 4: The 2 rows can be collapsed
